Dashboard customization (Theming and Branding) (#1568)
gardener/dashboard: docs/operations/customization.md

Attention: You need to set values for all files as mapping the volume will overwrite all files. It is not possible to exchange single files.

The files have to be encoded as base64 for the chart - to generate the encoded files for the `values.yaml` of the helm chart, you can use the following shorthand with `bash` or `zsh` on Linux systems. If you use macOS, install coreutils with brew (`brew install coreutils`) or remove the `-w0` parameter.

```bash
cat << EOF
  ###
  ### COPY EVERYTHING BELOW THIS LINE
  ###

  assets:
    favicon-16x16.png: |
      $(cat frontend/public/static/assets/favicon-16x16.png | base64 -w0)
    favicon-32x32.png: |
      $(cat frontend/public/static/assets/favicon-32x32.png | base64 -w0)
    favicon-96x96.png: |
      $(cat frontend/public/static/assets/favicon-96x96.png | base64 -w0)
    favicon.ico: |
      $(cat frontend/public/static/assets/favicon.ico | base64 -w0)
    logo.svg: |
      $(cat frontend/public/static/assets/logo.svg | base64 -w0)
EOF
```

Then, swap in the base64 encoded version of your files where needed.

## Branding

> It is also possible change the branding of the Gardener Dashboard the [helm chart](https://github.com/gardener/dashboard/blob/master/charts/gardener-dashboard) in the `frontendConfig.branding`. The following configuration properties are supported:

Author: :mark

| `loginFooterHeight` | Height of the login footer in the [GLogin](https://github.com/gardener/dashboard/blob/master/frontend/src/layouts/GLogin.vue) component | `24` |
| `loginFooterTemplate` | Custom HTML template to replace to login footer content | refer to [GLoginFooter](https://github.com/gardener/dashboard/blob/master/frontend/src/components/GLoginFooter.vue) |
| `loginHints` | Links to product related sites shown below the login button | `undefined` |
| `oidcLoginTitle` | Title of tabstrip for loginType OIDC | `OIDC` |
| `oidcLoginText` | Text show above the login button on the OIDC tabstrip | `Press Login to be redirected to`<br> `configured OpenID Connect Provider.` |

### Example

The following example configuration in `values.yaml` shows some of the possibilities to achieve a custom theming and branding:

```yaml
  ...
  frontendConfig:
    themes:
      light:
        primary: '#354a5f'
        anchor: '#5b738b'
        main-background: '#354a5f'
        main-navigation-title: '#f5f6f7'
        toolbar-background: '#354a5f'
        toolbar-title: '#f5f6f7'

>         action-button: '#354a5f'

Author: added dark theme colors

            </div>
          </a>
        </div>
      loginTeaserHeight: 296
      loginTeaserTemplate: |
        <div
          class="d-flex flex-column align-center justify-center bg-main-background-darken-1 pa-3"
          style="min-height: {{minHeight}}px"
        >
          <img
            src="{{productLogoUrl}}"
            alt="Login to {{productName}}"
            width="140"
            height="140"
            class="mt-2"
          >
          <div class="text-h3 text-center font-weight-thin text-white mt-4">
            {{productTitle}}
          </div>
          <div class="text-h5 text-center font-weight-light text-primary mt-1">
            {{productSlogan}}
          </div>
        </div>
      loginFooterTemplate: |
        <div class="text-primary text-caption">
          Copyright 2023 by Nucleus Corporation
        </div>
      loginHints:
        - title: Support
          href: https://gardener.cloud
        - title: Documentation
          href: https://gardener.cloud/docs
      oidcLoginTitle: MyIDP
      oidcLoginText: Press LOGIN to be redirected to My Identity Service.
```
#### Login Screen

<img width="800" src="../images/customization-1.png">

> The Login screen now shows the custom logo in a different size. The product title is also show and the OIDC tabstrip title and text is changed to a custom specific one. Product related links are shown below the login button. The footer contains a copyright notice for the custom company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the login screen now displays the custom logo in a different size. The product title is also shown, and the OIDC tabstrip title and text have been changed to a custom-specific one. Product-related links are displayed below the login button. The footer contains a copyright notice for the custom company.
```

Author: ✔️

#### Teaser in Main Navigation

<img width="800" src="../images/customization-2.png">

The template approach is also used in this case to change the `font-size` and `line-height` of the product title and slogan. The product version (superscript) is omitted.

#### About Dialog

<img width="800" src="../images/customization-3.png">

> By changing the `productLogoUrl` and the `productName` the changes automatically effect the apperance of the About Dialog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By changing the `productLogoUrl` and the `productName`, the changes automatically effect the apperance of the About Dialog.
```

Author: ✔️

# Theming and Branding

## Motivation
Gardener landscape administrators should have the possibility to change the appearance and the branding of the Gardener Dashboard via configuration without the need to touch the code.

## Branding

> It is also possible to change the branding of the Gardener Dashboard when using the [helm chart](https://github.com/gardener/dashboard/blob/master/charts/gardener-dashboard) in the `frontendConfig.branding` map. The following configuration properties are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to change the branding of the Gardener Dashboard when using the [helm chart](https://github.com/gardener/dashboard/blob/master/charts/gardener-dashboard) in the `frontendConfig.branding` map. The following configuration properties are supported:
```

              </div>
            </a>
          </div>
        loginTeaserHeight: 296
        loginTeaserTemplate: |
          <div
            class="d-flex flex-column align-center justify-center bg-main-background-darken-1 pa-3"
            style="min-height: {{minHeight}}px"
          >
            <img
              src="{{productLogoUrl}}"
              alt="Login to {{productName}}"
              width="140"
              height="140"
              class="mt-2"
            >
            <div class="text-h3 text-center font-weight-thin text-white mt-4">
              {{productTitle}}
            </div>
            <div class="text-h5 text-center font-weight-light text-primary mt-1">
              {{productSlogan}}
            </div>
          </div>
        loginFooterTemplate: |
          <div class="text-anchor text-caption">
            Copyright 2023 by Nucleus Corporation
          </div>
        loginHints:
          - title: Support
            href: https://gardener.cloud
          - title: Documentation
            href: https://gardener.cloud/docs
        oidcLoginTitle: MyIDP
        oidcLoginText: Press LOGIN to be redirected to My Identity Service.

>       themes:

Reviewer 2: themes indentation must be same level as branding

Author: Hmm. It is the same, isn't it?
